Hi Everyone,

Apologies for delay, I realized that this had been sitting in my outbox for a week,
so this is from last week... I'm going to send the summary for this week soon. 

This is my attempt at writing a weekly summary of our video meeting we have each
Tuesday. I'm using the notes that have been taken during the meeting by the
collective effort so the quality of the section depends highly on the quality of
the notes taken.


# Weekly news by organization

- [IPython](https://github.com/willingc/pulse_news/blob/master/2017-03-14_ipython.md)
- [Jupyter](https://github.com/willingc/pulse_news/blob/master/2017-03-14_jupyter.md)
- [JupyterLab](https://github.com/willingc/pulse_news/blob/master/2017-03-07_jupyterlab.md)
- [Jupyter-widgets](https://github.com/willingc/pulse_news/blob/master/2017-03-14_jupyter-widgets.md)
- [JupyterHub](https://github.com/willingc/pulse_news/blob/master/2017-03-14_jupyterhub.md)

# IPython

- Matthias is waiting for review/feedback on a couple of PRs. He self-merged a
  couple of PR by lack of review that were mostly documentation. Sorry if there
  are typos.
- There is still no decision on readline-hooks reintegration.
  https://github.com/ipython/ipython/issues/10364 Fernando should have time to
  have a look soon, and if not making a BDFL decision yet at least indicate a
  way forward.
- Matthias is working on async-REPL. It’s working. Documentation and test are
  in, tutorial is in. It needs bikeshedding on option naming (Matthias is happy
  and agree with himself on naming for now). This not only integrate with
  `asyncio`  but option for `trio` and `curio` are present. integration is
  configurable from the command line/config file, and with a magic. On/Off, as
  well as which integration (using short aliases), long fully qualified names
  `Foo.blah.blah` in case new io libs get released (someone want to write an
  integration for `uvloop` ?) that will be auto imported and registered , or
  even dynamically defined hook from the REPL. Integration should work in
  terminal ipython, Notebook, Lab, Nteract. There are possible “improvements”
  but that’ll start to be a lot for a feature that’s already quite a bit of
  work, and not easy to understand already.
  https://github.com/ipython/ipython/pull/10390
- Should IPython Set qt api versions of all apis at once? There seem to be a
  consensus among the non-ipython-core people that this should be done. I’ll
  prefer to fix things for user who complains more than fix a theoretical
  potential problem with really aging packages, potentially reverting decision
  or adding configurability if needed later.
  https://github.com/ipython/ipython/issues/10384
  There seem to be an agreement that it should, will a couple of people unsure.
- As there does not seem to be much requests / interest in IPython 6.0, Matthias will
  bump issues I’m not going to work on, and that won’t be addressed (basically
  all that is not what’s above), take executive decisions if not challenged on
  issues and cut a beta if still no feedback or complaints.


- Unrelated: IPython genutils has been released.
- The docathon was great.



# Notebook (Grant, Thomas, Jason)

- Improved LaTeX delimiter detection to exclude from interpretation as markdown
  (incl. tests!)
- Last notebook 5.0 PR merged (during this meeting). We’ll have a release soon.
- We’ll write a blogpost about this ([dropbox paper for
  draft?](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Jupyter-Notebook-5.0-onj98NSvrkQ1eVeT8KTFv)) if you want to help !
- Testing notebook 5.0.0b2, tracking at
  https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/issues/2150
- Will release 5.0.0rc today
- Plan on releasing 5.0.0 after dev meeting next Tuesday

  
# nbconvert (Mike)

- Began creating a post based mechanism using “download as” so that we can pass
  back configuration files.
- Made progress on automatically generating dicts of default values and types
  for traitlets (for future auto-generated UI for jupyter app configuration
  based on types.)

# Services - kernel gateway, docker-stacks (Pete, Min)

- `@rolweb` submitted a PR to support handling tokens in URL query strings in
  addition to the Authorization headers in kernel gateway.
- @[basnijholt](https://github.com/jupyter/docker-stacks/issues?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+author%3Abasnijholt)
  submitted a large version-bump PR for many of the packages in docker-stacks.
- There’s a PR open against nbviewer for a basic show/hide code cell capability.
  It can grow over time to support the presence of visibility tags or dashboard
  metadata.

# Dashboard and related extensions (Pete)

- No news. I need to test with notebook 5.0.0b2.

# JupyterLab (Steve, Darian, Chris)

- Darian added full layout restoration on page refresh.
  https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab/pull/1880
- Steve and Darian are continuing the work to split the repository into multiple
  packages.  Should be done by tomorrow with a 0.18 release to follow by the end
  of the week.
  [jupyterlab/jupyterlab#1773](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab/issues/1773)
- Steve ported our extension builder to Webpack 2.0, which has support for
  ECMAScript 6 syntax.
  [jupyterlab/extension-builder#51](https://github.com/jupyterlab/extension-builder/pull/51)
- Chris is working on single document mode for the DockPanel.

# ipywidgets (Jason, Sylvain)  ( Brian, Cameron)

We continued working on the migration to Jupyter Lab 0.17 and the new Phosphor packages
(https://github.com/ipython/ipywidgets/pull/1122), which is almost done.
[@maartenbreddels](https://github.com/maartenbreddels) has a PR under review
(https://github.com/ipython/ipywidgets/pull/1194) to make the syncing protocol
handle binary values at any depth as binary buffers in the comm message
protocol. This provides an easy way to efficiently sync things like a numpy
array where you want to transfer both the binary data and some metadata like a
dtype.

PS: check out https://ipyvolume.readthedocs.io/en/latest/animation.html

# JupyterHub (Min, Carol)

- Min and Carol had lots of good conversations during visit at Berkeley last
  week. Min is exploring deploying Commuter as a sharing/discovery service with
  JupyterHub, with the goal of focusing HubShare purely on the data-interchange
  piece (push/pull to a public place).
- Carol, with help from Yuvi and Ryan, will be working on migrating some
  deployment documentation about Kubernetes based on Data8 to a generic
  JupyterHub with Kubernetes document.

# Conferences/Outreach

New:
- Codeland: 21-22 April NYC Carol and Safia are on a panel for open source.
  http://codelandconf.com/
- PyParis: http://pyparis.org, June 12-13 2017. CFP at
  http://pyparis.org/cfp.html.

Already Announced:

- JupyterCon proposal deadline extended one week! Now due today! (March 14)
- Please remind your networks to submit 3 hour tutorial proposals too. Core
  devs, get your tutorial proposals in ASAP. Thanks.
- Call For Proposals for SciPy opened last week, registration opened Feb. 27.
  CFP deadlines: Tutorials: 3/22; Talks & Posters: 3/27
- PyData Amsterdam: 8-9 April, Call For Proposals (CFP) is closed
  http://pydata.org/amsterdam2017/
- PyData London: 5-7 May, CFP is closed http://pydata.org/london2017/

# Action Items for this week

- Submit talk proposals to JupyterCon by end-of-day (March 14).
- Matthias is looking for feedback for his async REPL implementation.
  https://github.com/ipython/ipython/pull/10390
- Matthias is looking for thoughts on what Qt API versions IPython should
  support. https://github.com/ipython/ipython/issues/10384
  - Grant is looking for people to test notebook `5.0.0b2`
- Pete needs helps testing dashboards on notebook `5.0.0b2` and `.rc`

# Releases this week:

- ipython_genutils 0.2.0 (PyPI,  conda-forge). Zero new features. Unless you’re
  packaging it yourself for another platform you probably do not need to worry
  about it.
- DockerSpawner 0.7. Update to handle changes in docker, improved handling of
  docker networks.
- JupyterLab 0.18
- Notebook 5.0.0rc

## Releases soon:

- IPython 6.0b
- Notebook 5.0.0: Next Tuesday
- IPywidgets 6.1 (or 7.0 depending on backwards compatibility issues)

---

Thanks you for reading, and thanks a lot for those of you who wrote sections
with full sentences and all the details. Any help to put this document in form
before sending it to the mailing list is welcome. It's a collaborative document
so anyone can pitch in.

As usual if you have any questions/feedback/corrections like sections too long,
to short missing informations, your input is welcomed. We'll keep these summary
for a couple of weeks to see if you find them useful.

Thanks.

--
Matthias
